
Getting Comfortable with Reading Python Documentation 

This exercise does not have a solution, because it will be obvious to you 
whether or not you're successful. Your task is the following. 

Launch either ipython or a jupyter notebook (ipython is somewhat easier for 
this as you don't have to create a save file), and import numpy, scipy, 
matplotlib, or some other anaconda package that you're familiar with. 

Type the name of the package you imported followed by a period, and then press 
the tab key. This will bring up a small window listing all of the contents of 
the package. 

Select one of the options, place a question mark after the name of the 
function and hit enter (do not put a space after the question mark). This will 
bring up the docstring for the object you've selected. If the docstring has 
more lines than your terminal window can fit, you'll need to press Q to exit. 
Alternatively, you can run "help(name of function)" to view the docstring 
(you'll need to use this option if you're running the more bare bones python 
command line on the terminal rather than the ipython interface). 

Not everything you see in the package contents is truly a part of the package; 
some of it is imported by the package. For example numpy imports the 'sys' and 
'os' builtin modules, so if you've imported numpy, you'll find these also at 
'numpy.sys' and 'numpy.os'. 

Continue looking at docstrings until you find a function that you've never 
used before. Read the description of the function, its parameters, and what it 
returns. Now call the function several times with some dummy data until you're 
comfortable with it, and understand its output given your input. 

Repeat this process until you're comfortable reading docstrings. If you've 
never done matrix algebra in python before, then numpy's linear algebra 
library is probably a good place to look for functions you haven't used. This 
can be found at 'numpy.linalg' after importing numpy. 

Finally, run a google search for one of the functions you searched. Especially 
if you run a search for a function in one of the major anaconda libraries like 
numpy, scipy, or matplotlib, the function you searched will probably the top 
result. Click on it to view the HTML documentation; because it is generated 
from the docstring, it contains the same information. This isn't unique; most 
publicly available packages procedurally generate their documentation in this 
way. This may be particularly useful if you don't have internet access while 
coding. 

The following is a link to my personal favorite comprehensive reference on 
reStructuredText: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html 

Should you write any restructured text, an easy RST interpreter is restview, 
installable via pip: https://pypi.org/project/restview/ 
