
Challenge Problem: Histogram with Errorbars 

This is an exercise in precisely plotting histogram counts with matplotlib, 
ensuring that a step function plotted has steps exactly at the bin edges that 
you record counts within. This is a programming problem whose solution is 
quite important in most of astronomy research. 

Create a single matplotlib subplot, and label its x-axis "x" and its y-axis 
"Counts". Set the x-limits to -2.5 and +2.5. 

Set up an array of bin-edges to create 10 bins between -2 and +2 to record 
counts within. (What should the length of this array be?) 

Write a function which determines the bin number of a value given an array of 
bins and the value itself as parameters. You can assume that the bins array 
will be sorted from least to greatest, and let this function return -1 in the 
event that the value is not within the range spanned by the bin-edges. You do 
not need to do any error-handling for this function. Bonus: write a docstring 
for this function. 

Simulate counts in these bins by sampling a gaussian with mean 0 and standard 
devition 1 using the numpy.random.normal function, incrementing the 
appropriate bin number by 1 for each sampled number. 

Plot a histogram of these values by calling ax.step for a subplot ax (if you 
gave your subplot a different name, that's fine). Ensure that the horizontal 
lines denoting the number of counts span the entire range from -2 to +2. 
(Hint: Pay special attention to the keyword argument "where" accepted by 
ax.step. The solution calls ax.step not once but twice). 

Plot errorbars at the center of each of the bins between -2 and +2 by letting 
each count N have an error of sqrt(N) (i.e. poisson statistics). These 
errorbars should not have a line connecting them, and should have no 
accompanying point - only the error bar. This must be done by calling 
ax.errorbar for a subplot ax. 

Both the line plotted by ax.step and the errorbars should be plotted in black. 
Finally, set the y-axis lower-bound to zero, but leave the upper bound 
unmodified, and save the figure as both a PNG and a PDF. 

